Add Sphinx documentation (#1861)
astronomer/astro-sdk: universal_transfer_operator/docs/guides/concepts.rst

.. _concepts:

========
Concepts
========

.. _dataset:

Datasets
--------

A dataset in Airflow represents a logical collection of data. Upstream tasks that produce data can update datasets, and downstream DAGs that consume data can be scheduled based on dataset updates.

A dataset is defined by a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

.. code-block:: python

    from airflow import Dataset

    example_dataset = Dataset("s3://dataset-bucket/example.csv")

> Universal transfer operator uses following URIs as datasets across its operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Universal Transfer Operator supports two `Dataset` specializations: `Tables` and `Files`, which enrich the original Airflow `Dataset` concept, for instance, by allowing uses to associate Airflow connections to them. Examples:
```

    .. literalinclude:: ../../example_dags/example_universal_transfer_operator.py
       :language: python
       :start-after: [START dataset_table]
       :end-before: [END dataset_table]

#. **Temporary Tables**

    The user can transfer data without giving the table name, and the universal transfer operator will make temporary tables that have unique names starting with ``_tmp``.

    There are two approaches to create temporary tables:

    #. Explicit: instantiate a ``universal_transfer_operator.datasets.table.Table`` using the argument  `temp=True`
    #. Implicit: instantiate a ``universal_transfer_operator.datasets.table.Table`` without giving it a name, and without specifying the `temp` argument

        .. literalinclude:: ../../example_dags/example_universal_transfer_operator.py
           :language: python
           :start-after: [START dataset_table]
           :end-before: [END dataset_table]

Metadata
~~~~~~~~
Metadata is used to give additional information to access a SQL Table.

> For example, a user can detail the Google Bigquery schema and database for a table. Although these parameters can change name depending on the database, we have normalised the :class:`~universal_transfer_operator.datasets.table.Metadata` class to name their schema and database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a user can detail the Google Bigquery dataset and project for a table. Although these parameters can change name depending on the database, we have normalised the :class:`~universal_transfer_operator.datasets.table.Metadata` to offer a generic interface for them. The Universal transform operator names the top-level container of tables schema.  The term `schema` is consistent with Snowflake and Postgres, for instance, but it maps to a BigQuery dataset. Users can also define `databases` within the Metadata, which are containers of schemas. This terminology is consistent with Snowflake and Postgres but maps to a Google project in the case Google Bigquery.
```

.. _transfer_working:

How Universal Transfer Operator Works
-------------------------------------
.. figure:: /images/approach.png

With universal transfer operator, users can perform data transfers using the following transfer modes:

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/universal_transfer_operator/constants.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: [START TransferMode]
   :end-before: [END TransferMode]

Non-native transfer
-------------------
When we load a data located in one dataset located in cloud to another dataset located in cloud, internally the steps involved are:

Steps:

#. Get the dataset data in chunks from dataset storage to the worker node.
#. Send data to the cloud dataset from the worker node.

This is the default way of transferring datasets. There are performance bottlenecks because of limitations of memory, processing power, and internet bandwidth of worker node.

Following is an example of non-native transfers between Google cloud storage and Sqlite:

.. literalinclude:: ../../example_dags/example_universal_transfer_operator.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: [START transfer_non_native_gs_to_sqlite]
   :end-before: [END transfer_non_native_gs_to_sqlite]

> Improving bottlenecks by using native transfer

Reviewer: Should we add an example? What about a link to specific pre-configurations for the users to benefit from them?

Author: @tatiana the PR for native transfer is still not merged so an example would be available after that.
